In today's video we will review ICICI LBAD Elevat
& Manipal Cigna Sarvaah Uttam. We will do a
detailed comparison of these.
All the features and benefits will be discussed on the basis of their premium and
claim ratios and at the
end of the video we will try to find out
which of the two plans
is more suitable for us.  So
stay with this video till the end.  Hello friends,
I am Ashutosh.  Let's start the video.
ICICI LB Elevat and Manipal Cigna
Sarva Uttam are both very comprehensive
plans.  And widely recommended by the
advisors.  Both these plans are
also very favorites among advisors.  Minimum and
Maximum Entry Age Minimum 18 years.   There is
no maximum entry age.
90 days per year is usual for dependent children.  Sum
Assured Option ICICI has sum assured option of Rs 5 lakh to Rs 3 crore.
Apart from that,
we get the option of unlimited sum assured.  This
means that there will be no limit on the sum assured.
You can claim any amount.  Cigna Manipal
Cigna Sarvam offers you sum assured options ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh.
Room Category
Single Private AC Room at ICICI Elevate
which you can upgrade with a Room Modifier add on
to any room.
In Manipal Signal Sarvaam also you will
get capping of single private AC room which
you can rent with any rider.
AYUSH Treatment Ayurvedic Unani
Siddha Homeopathic Alternate Treatment up
to sum assured is covered in both the plans
which will be covered in patient
not OPD Pre & Post Hospitalization
ICICI Alleviation 90 Days & 180 Days
is also covered in Manipal Signal Sarvottam for 90 & 180 Days. We should try to
take a plan in which pre and post
hospitalization is
covered for maximum number of days.  Day care treatments are
treatments that do
not require 24-hour hospice hospitalization.  The
treatment is completed in just a few hours of procedure.  Because of
technological advancement.
Up to sum ash is covered in both the plans.  All day care
treatments.  Organ donor cover up to sum
assured is covered.
Domiciliary hospitalization up to sum assured
is covered in both the plans.  Domestic
hospitalization means when you
take hospitalization at home.  Home Care
Treatment ICICI Elevate
offers the benefit of nursing at home.  Whereas there is
no home care treatment in Manipal Cigna.
Road Ambulance is covered up to sum assured in both the plans
without any capping.  Air
ambulance up to sum assured is covered.
As an add on to Elevate.
As an add on is also covered in Manipal Cigna.  Up to 10 lakhs.
Free health checkup
is available as an add-on in both the plans.  Free health checkup
is not available.  Modern treatment up to
sum assured is covered.  There is no capping.
Second medical opinion is not available in both the plans.
Maternity cover is available as an add-on.
Both the plans including
ICICI Elevate are available with a waiting period of 2 years.
With a rider, the
waiting period can be reduced to one year.
Sum Assured available will be 10% of sum
assured maximum up to Rs 1 lakh.  Whereas
Manipal Singh Sarva will provide coverage of 20% of sum
assured maximum up to ₹5 lakh.
But the waiting period
is a bit longer, 3 years.  Newborn baby cover
available with maternity cover is part of maternity cover.
Ah, there is a maternity part in both.
World Wide Cover as addon is available
for Plant Hospitalization and Emergency
Hospitalization.  Manipal signal is
not available at best.  The plan variant
is the same.  Elevate Serva comes with three plans: Pratham, Uttam and
Param.  The first one is a critical
illness plan.  Uttam Comprehensive
Plan and Param Senior Citizen Specific
Plan.  Waiting Period Both plans have an
initial waiting period of 30 days, with a two-
year specific waiting period for slow-
growing decisions.  Three year waiting period
for pre-existing disease.  Talking about the
most important unique benefits of both the plans,
in the USP case of ICICI Elevate, we get a limited bonus of 100%
called Power Booster which
increases by 100% every year.  This is an add
on.  Apart from this, we get an inbuilt bonus of 20%,
maximum up to 100%.  Another
unique benefit we get is
Infinite Care in ICICI LBD Elevate in which we can
claim once in a lifetime for an unlimited amount.  So whether
your policy is worth Rs 10 or 20 lakh or
you have any bonus, but if a big claim comes,
you can use this option.
Apart from that, limited restoration is available.
Also Jump Start which is hypertension,
diabetes, asthma, hyperlipidemia,
obesity, coronary artery disease, PTCA done
priority to one year.  This means that if
your strengthening has happened before one year, then that too will be
covered in this plan without any waiting
period.  Also, 2 hours
hospitalization is also covered in this plan.  Manipal Signal
Sarvam also has unlimited restoration cover.  There is
a piggy bank benefit which
gives you a 100% bonus up to 10 times.
So every year you will get 100% bonus for the next
10 years.  So your policy of Rs 10 lakh can
go up to Rs 1 crore.  Apart from that, Sarathi
benefit is available for pre-existing
conditions.  You can cover Asthma, Diabetes,
Hypertension, Obesity & Cholesterol and
without waiting period.
Surplus Benefit which gives you immediate 100%
sum assured from Day One.  So there
is a policy of Rs 10 lakh.  So it will immediately cover for Rs 20 lakh.
As is the case with HDFC Aago Optima
Secure.  Apart from that, Anant
is also a benefit similar to Infinite Care
in which you get unlimited claim amount in case of some specific diseases like
cancer, heart condition, stroke, major
transplant.
Apart from that, there
is also an option of deductibles in this plan.
Talking about the optional benefits of this plan,
ICICI Elevate includes Infinite Care which
gives once in a lifetime infinite amount.
Ah, inflation protector which increases your policy
according to inflation.
Power Booster to Samas 100% Bonus Every Year
Domestic Air Ambulance Jump Start
Covering Pre-Existing Diseases Without Waiting Period.  Dependent
Accommodation Claim Protector that
covers non-payable items.  This is a very
important rider, you should take it.  Room
modifiers that allow you to upgrade or downgrade from a single private AC room.
Both options are available.  Compassionate visit,
nursing at home, maternity, newborn baby
cover, vaccination for newborn, all three are
parts of maternity.  Durable Medical
Equipment, Care Benefits, Health
Checkup, BeFit or an OPD Rider,
Network Advantage.  In Network Advantage,
you get some discount
in your policy.  But you have to get the treatment done
only in ICICI's preferred network hospital.
If you go outside that list,
you will have to make a co-payment.  Personal
accident cover, critical illness, tele-
consultation, option to reduce maternity
waiting period, voluntary co-payment and
NRI discount.  If you are an NRI,
you get a discount.
Talking about the riders of ManipalCigna Serva, it includes
Personal Accident Cover, Temporary Total
Disability.  Both of these are parts of the same writer.
Health Checkup, Air Ambulance,
Restoration, Gullak which gives you bonus up to 10
times.  100% Sarathi every year
which covers your pre-existing diseases.
Maternity Surplus Benefit which
gives you 2x cover immediately.  Infinite:
For one claim, you
get unlimited amount for some specific diseases.  Room rent
modification in which you can also upgrade.
Downgrades also include deductible option
copayment and non-medical equipment and
durable equipment.  So this rider
is very important and should be taken along with the policy.
Talking about zones, ICICI LBA
Deliveroo has four zones and Sarvam has
three zones.  Talking about premium,
for premium I took the example of a 35 year old couple
with two kits Delhi NCR
with 10 land.  The premium of ICICI Elevate is Rs
20,000 while that of Manipal Cigna is Rs 29,000.
In ICICI Elevate, we get another benefit,
civil discount of up to 15%.
Multi-year policy: In ICICI Elevate, we get an
option that we can take a policy for up to 5 years
together.
We can take a 3 year policy in ManipalCigna.  If we
take a policy for 2 years, 3 years, 4 years or 5 years, we get a discount
and
we also save ourselves from the increase in premium due to inflation.
Talking about the Incurred Claim Ratio, that is,
how much premium the company is collecting from us
in a year and how much claim it is giving, then the
Incurred Claim Ratio of ICICI LBR is 82%
and that of Manipal Cigna is 74%, so if it is above 70.75% then
it is considered a very good healthy ratio
and on the basis of this ICR we
can say that both the companies are
very good in terms of claims.  The claim settlement
ratio of ICICI LBD is definitely a little low.  It is 80%.
Whereas Manipal Cigna has 93%.
Talking about complaint ratio, for every
10,000 claims, ICICI Lombard has 14, Manipal
Cigna has 25. So,
somewhere the claim ratio is a little higher in Manipal Cigna.
Talking about ICICI value for money,
ICIC LBAD is Elevate Fair Valued.  Whereas
Manipal Signa is a bit on the expensive side.
Friends, you can select any of the two plans as per
your need.
Both are very good comprehensive
plans.  Both have a lot of great
unique benefits.  Claim settlement wise
both are quite good.  As
important as it is to get the right health
insurance, it is equally important to
get it from the right source.  So try to buy a policy from a good advisor
who can provide you good after sales
service and if you
want to discuss your policy with me or
want to buy a policy then you can connect with me on the number given below
or you can book a
paid consultation with me by visiting my website Ashutosh.com.
Friends, that's all for today's
video, see you
in the next video.  Thank you.